= Release 1.7.11
12 Aug 2009


== Important changes

There have been no public releases between 1.7.6 and this version. The
versions in between have been issued privately to beta testers and to
fix specific issues at certain sites. All fixes and improvements have
been rolled into 1.7.11.

== Fixes

* Fixed a bug introduced in 1.7.5 with discounts that were set to fee
override. This discount did not save correctly and only affect the
discount percentage.

* Prevented an exception that arose when adding an additional contact to
QE when the original contact did not have a class selected

* Resolved the issue where financial preferences could not be opened
more than once in the same session.

* Fixed a bug with relating to access control. For users with limited
access to class edit view, the information displayed did not refresh
correctly and appeared as if blank.

* In the class by subject report, the reported value of maximum places
in class was not always correct

* The merging process no longer exposes the password field for either
contact.

* Improved the quick search field in invoice, enrolment, payments and
contact list. This now follows the same rules as when used in Quick
Enrol and contact names can be entered as either "John Smith" or "Smith,
John".

* Allowed arbitrary GL account codes to be set by the user. Previously
they were restricted to starting with a first digit designating the
type: asset, expense, etc.

* Mandatory tags that are missing now correctly display a warning when
editing a record.

* Resolved the issue where tutor names and class codes were displaying
incorrectly on the class contact and details report.

* When entering a complete course-class code in Quick Enrol, if class
corresponding to the code was full, would auto select a different class
that was empty instead of a non-selection. Now an error is shown and the
user required to make another choice.

* Resolved issue where private booking was failing if the end date was
not specified.

* Tags are now sorted according to weight & name, which prevents tag
groups appearing in random order.

* When a credit card payment is declined it now displays the following
clearer text to the user:
** "keep the invoice, charges and enrolments for later payment", or
** "cancel the enrolments and create a credit note so that this
transaction is reversed from onCourse"

* The special needs field has been re-added to the Contact edit views.

* The disability report now includes information from the special needs
field.

* Merging contacts now merge tags correctly.

* Introduced sort order in contact screen to include sort by lastname,
then firstname, rather than only on lastname with firstnames being
arbitrary.

* Fixed validation issue for course field of education.

* Resolved issue where if a qualification was chosen, it was not
possible to enter a field of education that differs from qualification

* Sometimes NTIS course/qualification data would take a very long time
to download. This problem should be resolved.
