= Release 9.0
6 Decemeber 2016


== Important changes

=== Release notes will be displayed for each onCourse user at login

Hello and welcome to your latest onCourse upgrade! Each time a new
onCourse version is released, the release notes will be displayed to
each onCourse user when they log in, inside the application.

Take a moment to read through this screen to understand what has changed
since the last time you logged in. When you are done here, just close
the window. Once you've closed the window, you won't see this alert
again until the next upgrade is deployed.

== Major features

=== onCourse Certificate Verification Portal

The onCourse Certificate Verification Portal has now been deployed for
all customers who have implemented the QR code printing function on
their onCourse Qualification and Statement of Attainment certificates.

The Certificate Verification Portal will allow employers or other RTOs
to confirm the certificate was issued to the student named without
requiring them phone, or otherwise contact the RTO to request look up of
the Certificate number in the register.

By taking a snapshot of the QR code printed on your certificates,
clicking in the code from a PDF certificate of visiting
http://www.skills.courses and typing in the unique certificate code, a
verification page will be displayed with an electronic record of the
units successfully completed, student name and date of issue. Revoked or
otherwise invalid certificates will display 'no certificate found'.

image::images/mobile_portal_verify.png[title='Welcome to the certificate verification portal ']

image::images/verified_soa.png[title='A verified Statement of Attainment']

If you are not yet printing the QR code on your certificates and you
would like some assistance to do so, please get in contact with us at
support@ish.com.au

=== AVETMISS 8

The new AVETMISS export has been added to this release of onCourse which
includes the additional delivery modes.

image::images/AVETMISS_8.png[title='AVETMISS 8 Export window']

=== User interface changes

==== onCourse Menu Restructure

To improve clarity and ensure all new onCourse features have a home in
the menu system, we have restructured the top level menus to better
group related items.

A new menu option called 'Products' includes all the items you can sell
via onCourse, including Courses, Gift Vouchers and Memberships.

The menu item 'Training' contains the features related to setting up and
scheduling training, including items such as Classes, Sites and
Documents.

The previous menu 'People' has been split into two menus: The new
'People' menu contains the options to access contacts and their
communication history via mailing lists and messages, while the new
'Activity' menu is where you will find Quick Enrol and all the results
of contact engagement with onCourse including Applications, Enrolments,
Certificates and Sales.

All options related to fees and payments, including CorporatePasses and
Discounts can be found under the 'Financial' menu.

The File, Edit, Windows and Help menu options are unchanged.

==== Find related record icon relocation

The find related records function in onCourse is such a regularly used
and powerful function of the onCourse application, that we have moved
this feature out of the cogwheel list and in to its very own own action
icon to make it more prominant. You can now access the 'Find related'
feature to the right of the search box in all onCourse list views. It's
icon looks like a magnifying glass hovering over a stack of papers.

==== Payment In & Quick Enrol redesign for payment processing

Creating a payment separately from an enrolment process used to open a
'payment in' window. The window that opens now is Quick Enrol.
Validation has been removed from inside Quick Enrol requiring the
transaction to contain at least one purchase.

Now, you can use Quick Enrol to process payments against invoices with
outstanding balances. You can do this via the normal Quick Enrol window,
or when clicking on the plus option inside the payment in list view.
This change in user interface also introduces the opportunity for
vouchers to be used as payment method after the enrolment process.

==== onCourse font change

The onCourse system font has been changed to SourceSansPro to allow for
clearer display on Retina and other high resolution screens.

==== Preference user interface updates

The preference settings for payment types, custom fields, contact
relations and concession types have been moved from being their own menu
item and windows, to being added to the list of preference options in
the File > Preferences > General list view.

==== Class cancellation notifications moved to script and email templates

When a class was cancelled in previous versions of onCourse, a window
opened asking if the user wanted to send a message to the students to
notify them, using a template that couldn't be easily customised. To
make this process consistant with other automated notifications, a new
script and email template set have been developed to replace this manual
message. Please review the new template called 'Enrolment cancellation'
and make the appropriate changes for your college before enabling this
script.

The new script 'Send enrolment cancellation' is disabled by default. If
you wish to use it at your college you will need to enable it. Please
note that enabling this script will automatically send the 'Enrolment
cancellation' email message to all enrolled students each time you
cancel a class. If this script is enabled this process will happen in
the background without the opportunity to review or disable the sending
of the message.

Another new script and email template pair have been added to notify
tutors when a class is cancelled, in the same way students are notified.
Review the script called 'Send tutor class cancellation' which is
disabled by default, and 'Tutor notice of class cancellation' email
template for any adjustments you wish to make before enabling this
script.

Note these scripts do not trigger when an enrolment is cancelled - only
when a class is cancelled.

==== Improved record loading speed over high latency internet links

The performance of communication between onCourse Client and Server has
been dramatically improved. Opening and saving windows is improved
throughout the whole application, but most noticeably if you are
connecting over the internet (such as our cloud hosted solution).
Improvements range from 20-30% in some cases to reducing the delay by a
factor of 10 in other cases.

==== Improved performance across the application

Improve performance across the application, and especially in the class
edit view. Over slow internet links the performance can be up to 10
times faster for certain actions.

=== RTO Features

==== onCourse portal refresh

A major refresh of the onCourse portal application has signficantly
improved the functionality for students, tutors, employers, agents and
parents.

The new group timetable view, scrolling schedule timetable view,
improved class roll attendance marking and payment gateway has been
deployed. A brand new dashboard, outcome marking module and certificate
verification service are also available.

==== Automated creation of VET Certificates

Unlike non-VET Certificates of Attendance, formal VET certifications
like Statements of Attainment and Qualifications can only be issued when
a student achieves outcome results for the units that make up their
course.

A new script in onCourse checks daily for any outcome results which have
been updated during the previous 24 hours, and if all the outcomes
attached to the enrolment have be set to have an outcome status, a VET
certification will be created if at least one of those outcomes was
successful.

Where the student has successfully achieved all outcomes linked to a
course which 'satisfies complete qualification or skill set', then they
will be issued a Qualification or Skill Set Certificate on completion.
If all outcomes have been marked, and some are unsuccessful, they will
be issued a Statement of Attainment instead.

For students undertaking a short course, who have successfully, or a mix
of successfully and unsuccessfully, completed their outcomes, a
Statement of Attainment will also be created for their successful units.

Deatiled documentation for enabling this feature is available in the
user handbook:
https://www.ish.com.au/s/onCourse/doc/latest/manual/rto.html#rto-Certificates[VET
Qualifications and other Certificates]

==== Distribution of VET Certificates through the portal

A new script has been added to automatically print and distribute VET
Certificates through the skillsOnCourse portal called 'send certificate
vet created notification'. Like all new scripts, it is disabled by
default and you will need to enable it if you wish to use it.

Each day, all unprinted VET Certificates for student who have a
validated USI will be printed to PDF and saved to the student's
enrolment record.

You will need to make sure you have created and uploaded the following
three two page background documents to onCourse before enabling this
script: vet_qualification_background.pdf, vet_skillset_background.pdf,
and vet_soa_background.pdf. The script will overlay the certificate
template on the correct background type during the print process.

The Certificate will then be uploaded to the student portal, and the
student sent an email notifying them is available for download.

The same email template, 'Certificate available', also called on by the
non-VET Certificate of Attendance distribution script is sent. Ensure
any modifications you make to the template suit the recipient of both
VET and non-VET certificates, or create a copy of the template to send a
different email to VET certified students.

==== Automatically generate verification QR code for certificates

In preparation for the deployment of the onCourse Certificate
Verification service, Statements of Attainment and Qualifications can
now be printed with a unique QR (Quick Response) code and manual URL
verification code.

The Certificate Verification service will allow employers or other RTOs
to confirm the certificate was issued to the student named without
requiring them phone, or otherwise contact the RTO to request look up of
the Certificate number in the register. This web portal feature is
currently in testing and will be deployed shortly.

Printing the built in certificate template will allow you to print
Statement of Attainment and Qualification certificates with or without a
QR code. All RTOs wishing to use the verification portal should check
the default location of the QR code on their onCourse certificate report
and make adjustments to the background report elements or location of
the QR code in the report as necessary. If you wish to add the QR code
to existing custom certificate reports, you can contact ish for
assistance.

==== onCourse Certificate Verification Portal

The onCourse Certificate Verification Portal has now been deployed for
all customers who have implemented the QR code printing function on
their onCourse Qualification and Statement of Attainment certificates.

The Certificate Verification Portal will allow employers or other RTOs
to confirm the certificate was issued to the student named without
requiring them phone, or otherwise contact the RTO to request look up of
the Certificate number in the register.

By taking a snapshot of the QR code printed on your certificates,
clicking in the code from a PDF certificate of visiting
http://www.skills.courses and typing in the unique certificate code, a
verification page will be displayed with an electronic record of the
units successfully completed, student name and date of issue. Revoked or
otherwise invalid certificates will display 'no certificate found'.

image::images/mobile_portal_verify.png[title='Welcome to the certificate verification portal ']

image::images/verified_soa.png[title='A verified Statement of Attainment']

If you are not yet printing the QR code on your certificates and you
would like some assistance to do so, please get in contact with us at
support@ish.com.au

==== AVETMISS 8

The new AVETMISS export has been added to this release of onCourse which
includes the additional delivery modes.

image::images/AVETMISS_8.png[title='AVETMISS 8 Export window']

==== AVETMISS improvements

A new 'suppress for AVETMISS' field has been added to the enrolment
record. This will let users met the NSW Smart & Skilled reporting
requirements of reporting and retaining records of a deferred or
discontinued student once, and then suppress the data from reporting in
subsequent monthly reports without needing to cancel the enrolment in
onCourse.

The AVETMISS export runner default has also been changed to
automatically tick and select the option 'Export 90 for VET outcomes
which are not set'. This can still be changed to export another value,
and won't affect the rules that govern the export of two blank spaces
for NSW Smart & Skilled or 70 for outcomes completing in the following
calendar year.

==== New duplicate course option

This feature is of particular interest to RTO onCourse users, who may
need to re-create courses regularly as training packages change or
internally unit clustering changes. In the course cogwheel, a 'duplicate
course' option will copy all the marketing and attached VET unit
information from an existing course and automatically add a '1' to the
end of the course code. This new course can then have units quickly
added, deleted or otherwise adjusted. By default, all duplicated courses
are set to be enabled on creation, but will not display on the web until
you set that value. NOTE: attached documents and related
courses/products do not duplicate with the course.

==== Import AVETMISS outcome data from NAT00080, NAT00085 & NAT00120 files

Of particular use to customers new to onCourse transitioning from
another AVETMISS enabled student management system, onCourse will now
allow you to import and create student contacts from the combination of
NAT00080, NAT00085 & NAT00120 files. The NAT00080, NAT00085 will create
contact records in onCourse, and any enrolment data in the NAT00120
(whether VET or non-VET) will be added as prior learning records to the
student files created.

==== Rewrite of the import feature

onCourse imports have been re-written in a groovy syntax, making them
easier for users to edit and extend. The most commonly used import, the
AVETMISS 80 & 85 allows you to customise the student contact data import
using AVETMISS files generated by another student management system.

==== Prior Learning data

To extend upon the exisiting AVETMISS data import option in onCourse
that was used to create student records, the NAT0060 and NAT00120 files
can also be imported to creating prior learning records in onCourse.
This allows for simple migration from another AVETMISS compliant student
management systems. The prior learning table can also be used to add
enrolment and outcome data to exisiting students inside onCourse, where
learning has taken place externally to the onCourse system.

These records are visible in the contact enrolment tab 'outcomes' list,
like other outcomes the student obtains via onCourse enrolments.

==== Prior learning edit and export

Prior learning data imported into onCourse now has its own view in the
contact education tab. These records can be double clicked to edit, and
new records can be added manually. All prior learning data added
manually or via import will also be collected and exported in whole of
college date range AVETMISS reporting.

=== Financial Features

==== Default invoice terms per contact

A new field has been added to the general preferences to allow for a
default due date for all invoices to be set. Previously, the default due
date was always the day of creation. In addition, each contact in
onCourse can have their own default due date that overrides the default,
so you can offer a range of relative terms like 7 days, 14 days, 31 days
to auto calculate an invoice due date for your corporate clients. This
features ties in with the new invoice payment due reminder script and
portal payment gateway also included in this release.

==== Allow transaction dates to be edited before period finalised

To allow for end of month Financial reporting adjustments, transaction
effective dates prior to the date the record was created can now be set
in onCourse. This will allow finance users to move transactions that
occur early in a new month to be pushed back into the month prior, for
invoices, payments in and payments out, and for the same types of
transactions to be moved forward in time as needed. Journals can also be
posted into the past.

Once a month end's movements are complete, the period should be
finalised, to avoid further movements during that date range. A new UI
has been added to the Financial menu options to Finalise Period.

Reports printed that include transactions in unlocked period include a
red warning on the last page ""This report includes unposted transaction
periods which are subject to change."

==== New account - Undeposited funds

A new default asset account has been created called 'undeposited funds'.
This accounts holds the balance of all unbanked payment in and payment
out transactions. When the payment is banked, it is transferred to the
'deposited funds' asset account. Payment methods that are marked as bank
automatically will always be deposited directly into the 'deposited
funds' accounts. Only payment methods that are banked manually are first
created in the 'undeposited funds' account. Payments that have their
banking date removed are deducted from the 'deposited funds' account and
returned to the 'undeposited funds' account.

==== Bank reconciliation redesign

The Bank Reconciliation process inside onCourse has been redesigned to
work from within the Banking Deposit list, rather than in a separate
window. Whole banking deposit records can be reconciled with a single
click, or balanced transaction by transaction.

In concert with this change, the associated reconciliation reports have
also been renamed 'Cash movements reports'.

The
http://ish.com.au/s/onCourse/doc/latest/manual/accounting.html#accounting-Deposit[Banking
and Reconciliation] chapter of the user handbook has been revised to
document in detail all of these changes

==== Default tax setting per income account

Each income account now has the option to set a default tax value. This
will automatically apply the selected tax option when the income account
is chosen during the class set up process, or when a manual invoice is
generated. The user can still choose to change the tax to another option
available as needed.

We recommend all finance managers review the default tax status of each
account after the upgrade and ensure the default option for each income
account is the more commonly used value i.e. does GST apply to most
transactions in this account or not. Changing these values do not change
any previous transactions in the system or any existing account/tax
combinations, but will ensure less user errors in tax selection are made
going forward.

==== Allow Discounts to change fee charged instead of charge to expenses

Previously, all discounts processed within onCourse processed the value
of the discount to the default COS (cost of sale) account as defined by
the financial preferences, called 'discounts given'. For example, if
your class fee was $100, with a $20 discount, so the student was charged
$80, then $100 income would be earnt by the transaction, with $20 of COS
expense posted.

Substantial changes have been made to the way discounts can be created
in the system so they can be either be a:

[arabic]
. *Discount linked to your choice of COS Account from those created in
the accounts list in general ledger.* You can now post each discount
type to it's own COS account or create a COS account for each
department. This type of setup is recommended for discounts like
senior's card discounts or promotional activities.
. *Discount linked to no COS account.* These types of discounts are
treated as an adjustment to the income earnt e.g. if the class fee was
$100, with a $20 discount posted to no COS account, so the student fee
is $80, then $80 income would be earnt by the transaction, with no
expense posted. For 'change of fee' type discounts, like Smart and
Skilled student fees, using the no COS discount type is recommended.

Changes to existing discount COS allocations will not change
transactions created in the past; it will only affect transactions
created after the change.

All manual discounts in Quick Enrol, and discounts in manual invoices
will post as a reduction of income, rather than to the COS expense.

The
http://ish.com.au/s/onCourse/doc/latest/manual/discounts.html[Discounts
chapter] of the user documentation has been revised to document in
detail all of these changes

==== New types of discounts

Two new bulk purchase discount types were added to onCourse. One option
allows you to define discounts based on the number of enrolments in the
transaction e.g. enrol 2 people and each get 5% off, or buy one get one
free.

The second option allows you to define a discount based on the total
value of the invoice, e.g. a 10% discount applies when the total invoice
value is over $1000.

Corporate passes can now also be linked directly to discounts, so
employers or agents enrolling students can have access to a special
price.

Discounts can now also be for a negative amount i.e. the discount raises
the class fee instead of lowering it. If an enrolment is eligible for
multiple types of discounts, and one of these discounts raises the class
fee, that discount will be selected by default.

In the case where an enrolment is eligible for multiple types of
discounts that reduce the class fee, as always, the best price for the
enrolling student will be selected by default.

With the new addition of these more complicated types of discounts, the
option to 'combine discounts' has now been removed from onCourse.

==== Discount override at the class level

This new feature allows you to override the discount value at the class
level, to assign varying class fees sharing the same discount name. This
option may be especially useful for funded programs like Smart &
Skilled. For example, a number of courses and classes can share the
discount 'First Qualification rate' but each class can have it's own
discounted price. Double click on the discount in the class budget tab
to edit it.

==== Discount offset from class start date

In addition to discounts running for a set date period, discounts can
now be set to be valid as an offset from the class start date. The
offset can allow the discount to run prior to the start date, or after
the start date. This will allow the creation of both early bird style
pricing and discounts for in-term enrolments.

==== Payroll Improvements

Tutors can now be attached to classes with multiple roles and payrates,
allowing you to assign the same contact, for example, as both a tutor
with an hourly payrate and an assessor with a per enrolment pay rate.
Per session pay rates now display the correct pay value in the class
budget, depending on the number of sessions the tutor is assigned to,
rather than multiplying the rate by the total number of sessions in the
class.

The payslip edit view layout has been rebuilt to better group and
display line items and make the editing processes, where class defaults
are overridden, clearer by displaying variations with red text. A
cogwheel option has been added next to each pay line item, replacing the
cross/delete icon, allowing you to 'defer to next pay run' to improve
the clarity of what this function does.

When you choose to defer a pay line, it will be removed from the pay
slip total for the current period, but when the payroll is generated for
the following pay period, it will appear again on that payslip. This
will continue until the pay line is processed via a pay slip.

===

=== Reports and scripts

Please read this information carefully and decide if you wish to update
the default script 'Send USI reminder'.

The USI reminder has been adjusted to send to only to students enrolled
in courses with units of competency attached. The previous
implementation was to send to VET flagged courses, however some onCourse
users VET flag courses with no modules for funding purposes, and those
students don't need a USI. An additional line has also been added to
send a notification to your onCourse admin email address (as per your
onCourse message preference settings) each time this message is sent,
advising how many students were contacted. If you wish to update your
script to the new version as described, please go to File > Preferences
> Scripts and locate 'send USI reminder'. Double click on the script and
click the button 'Update to latest version'. Ensure the 'enabled' flag
is also set. You may also wish to adjust your enrolment confirmation
email template that sends the first USI request to enrolling students.
In both the plain text and HTML email, before the USI request text is a
string that says:

....
<% if (enrolment.courseClass.course.isVET == true) { %>
....

Replace it with:

....
<% if (enrolment.courseClass.course.modules.size() > 0) { %>
....

* Added the last outcome end date as 'Date achieved' to the Certificate
of Attendance report `#30042`
* Added the last outcome end date as 'Date achieved' to the Certificate
of Attendance report `#30042`

* A new CSV export for Attendance was added to the class export options,
to show the attendance notes and record of who marked the roll (tutor
name or office) and date of marking `#29599`
* Improvement to SurveyMonkey API to create a single collector named
'onCourse' so SurveyMonkey basic plan account users can better utilise
this integration `#29273`
* Simplification of the time zone formatter in groovy for class sessions
`#29282`
* Auto truncate scripted SMS messages at 160 characters `#29038`
* Addition of the outcome marking data date, tutor name who marked the
outcome, and VET fee exemption type to the extended outcome export CSV
`#29594`

* A new script has been added to onCourse called 'notification of
unmarked attendance'. When enabled, this script sends a daily
notification to advise an admin user of any sessions run the previous
day where attendance was all or partially unmarked. If you have scripts
enabled that rely on tutors electronically marking the roll, we suggest
you enable this monitoring script also. `#26608`
* A new script has been added to onCourse called 'send payment plan
reminder'. When enabled, this script sends a reminder to the invoice
payer if they have a payment due within the next 7 days or if they have
a payment overdue. The email template link includes a password free one
time login to the portal payment gateway to make the payment via credit
card `#28806`
* Fix to Payment In an Payment Out reports to render company names
correctly `#28802`
* Addition of the 'createdOn' field to the Transaction CSV report, to
assist with idenitfying transaction_effective and record creation dates
`#29160`
* Addition of a default notification to the admin email address when a
student completes an online application. Open the 'send application
received notification' script and click 'update to latest version' to
add this option to your default script `#29187`
* Replace unsibscribe link in waiting list email template from one that
required the user to login to unsubscribe, to a timed no login needed
link. The updated template copy can be access on the
https://github.com/ari/oncourse-scripts[Github repository] `#29422`

* Two new AVETMISS imports were added to onCourse, allowing users to
import data from external systems 'AVETMISS student update import' and
'AVETMISS outcome update import' which either create new, or update
existing student records with the same First Name, Last Name and Date of
Birth. `#26792`
* Fix to the 'Enrolment notification' email to tutors to display the
price the student paid inclusive of any discounts. Change the line
+
....
Fee Paid:
            ${enrolment.invoiceLine.priceEachExTax.add(enrolment.invoiceLine.taxEach)} GST
            ${enrolment.invoiceLine.taxEach.isZero() ? 'free' : 'inc'}

....
+
to
+
....
Fee Paid: ${enrolment.invoiceLine.discountedPriceTotalIncTax} GST
            ${enrolment.invoiceLine.taxEach.isZero() ? 'free' : 'inc'}

....
+
in both the plain and HTML copy of the template, or update the whole
template with the latest version from the
https://github.com/ari/oncourse-scripts[Github repository] `#29002`

* A new version of the debtors report has been added to the contact
window that can be run to a specified date range, so you can determine
your debtors as of a particular date in time `#9508`
* A new report has been added to the contact window to calculate monthly
student attendance averages, of particular use to CRICOS providers
`#27095`
* A new script has been added to send an email notification to your
default admin email address when a product purchase is made on the web.
The script is called 'send product purchased email' and is disabled by
default `#25716`
* A new export has been added to the classes window called 'CourseClass
Sessions CSV export' to export class session data to excel `#28680`
* A new export has been added to the transaction window called 'Account
Transaction Segmentation CSV export' to show the Discount, GST or
Liability joins back to the invoiceLine income account `#28683`
* The default certificate report that prints Statements of Attainments
has had the second page Transcript report removed. Now, if the Statement
of Attainment contains more units than will fit on a single page, the
certificate will break into multiple pages, with the correct formatting
for each page. The certificate number will be appended with /1, /2 ect
as additional pages are created. If you use the default Certificate
template and print with a two page background, you should change the
background to a single page and re-test the print process. `#28313`
* The Transcript report can be printed as required from the Certificate
window for all types of certificate records `#28844`
* Reconciliation print reports renamed 'Cash Movements Detail Report'
and 'Cash Movements Summary Report' `#28264`
* Fix to Statement Report to only include payments with a successful and
non-reversed status `#28006`
* Addition of new report 'Payment Out', available from the payment out
window `#28646`
* The contact import and contact export CSV layouts have been aligned
`#27449`
* A new column has been added to the scripts list view to show the next
run date or event, and grey out the scripts that are disabled `#28315`
* Change the script edit permissions to allow the script CRON schedule
to be adjusted by all users `#27997`
* Fix to the calculation of isActive flag to ensure cancelled classes
are not included as active for reporting or scripting `#28689`
* A new option has been added to the export template cogwheel to
'duplicate export template'. This will assist users when creating their
own custom templates, using an onCourse template as the starting point.
The key code will be left blank in the duplicate process for you to
create your own unique code. `#28063`
* Improvement to the 'send certificate vet created notification' script
to set the issued on date to the day the certificate was automatically
printed and distributed to the student. If you are using this script,
you should open the script record and click 'update to latest version'.
`#28724 and #28579`
* Improvement to the 'send weekly finance summary report' script with
the addition of a send monthly option. If you are using this script and
want to enable the monthly option, first open the script record and
click 'update to the latest version'. Then, comment out the weekly time
range, and uncomment the monthly time range `#27107`
* Additional CRON times have been added to a drop down list, so rather
than having to write a custom schedule for each script, you can select a
pre-written option `#28500`

* Update to the printed invoice report template to show the number of
product items purchased on an invoice `#28218`

* A new script has been created called 'Send weekly finance summary
report' to email the Trial Balance for the previous 7 days to the system
admin email address every Monday morning. You may like to alter the
email address in the script, so this report sends to your finance
managers email address. This script is disabled by default `#27931`
* A new script has been created called 'cloudassess course enrolment
create' to create enrolments in the CloudAssess LMS where you have set
up this integration in onCourse. This script is disabled by default
`#27107`
* Added new ReportSpec API functions to allow reports to be printed and
emailed via scripts `#27405`
* Added new DocumentSpec API functions to allow documents to be created
and uploaded into the skillsOnCourse portal via scripts `#27696`
* Two new reconciliation reports have been added to the Banking Deposits
window called 'Reconciliation Summary' and 'Reconciliation Detail' that
group and total payments by type, better assisting bank account
reconciliation for daily Credit Card and AMEX transactions `#27696`
* The Enrolment Confirmation HTML email template has been updated to
ensure the class list displays correctly in MS Outlook 2013. To apply
this change, you will need to get the latest copy of the template from
https://github.com/ari/oncourse-scripts/tree/master/email[GIT Hub] and
add in any customisations you may have made to this template `#27122`
* The Tax Invoice plain text and HTML templates have been updated to
only show unpaid due dates for invoices. To apply these changes, you
will need to get the latest copy of the templates from
https://github.com/ari/oncourse-scripts/tree/master/email[GIT Hub] and
add in any customisations you may have made to these templates.

* A new template for Skill Set Statements of Attainment was added, that
will automatically print when a certificate record is set to be a full
Skill Set achievement `#25684`
* New scripts to allow integration with Cloud Assess LMS have been added
to onCourse. A self service API integration option will be added as part
of a future release. This early stage integration is to pass over
enrolment data from onCourse to create students and enrolments in Cloud
Assess. `#27605`

* Standard certificate CSV export updated to include all relevant data
for use in providing details of your onCourse certificate registrar to
an auditor or external body `#15094`
* Added grouping and subtotals by financial income account to the
'Income journal projection' report `#26982`
* Added new report 'Income summary projection' to show the forward
projection summaries for each financial income account. This shows the
same data as the 'Income journal projection' report, but without the
class detail `#26982`
* The onCourse scripting engine can now be used to schedule and send SMS
messages `#27028`
* Descriptions have been added for all onCourse default scripts `#26637`

* Standard certificate CSV export updated to include all relevant data
for use in providing details of your onCourse certificate registrar to
an auditor or external body `#15094`
* Added grouping and subtotals by financial income account to the
'Income journal projection' report `#26982`
* Added new report 'Income summary projection' to show the forward
projection summaries for each financial income account. This shows the
same data as the 'Income journal projection' report, but without the
class detail `#26982`
* The onCourse scripting engine can now be used to schedule and send SMS
messages `#27028`
* Descriptions have been added for all onCourse default scripts `#26637`

* A new OLGR data export file was added to the contact window for
customers delivering RSA training `#26609`
* Two new management reports added to the class window - Enrolment
Income by Account and Enrolment Summary by Account. These reports show
the enrolment numbers and income invoiced for classes selected in the
report, grouped by income codes. The summary report shows only a total
for each income account, without the class by class data `#26748`
* Make it easier to send links to specific portal pages like this
restrictedPortalURL("class" + $\{cc.willowId}, 7) which creates a link
to the class page with an expiry of 7 days. This is particularly helpful
for survey invites. `#26583`

* A new set of scripts has been added that links the maximum number of
places between two classes taught in the same room by the same tutor
called 'Increase maximum places' and 'decrease maximum places'. These
scripts are included in onCourse, but not enabled by default. `#26194`
* Images uploaded to the onCourse document management system can be
embedded into onCourse reports `#26503`
* Scripts can now 'print' and email onCourse PDF reports and send them
as attachments to related contacts e.g. class students and tutors
`#26805`

* Improvement to date references used within the Tax Invoice email
templates. We recommend you update the date fields in your template as
per the latest version on Git Hub. `#25971`
+
If you would prefer not to overwrite the full invoice template and
remove other modifications you have made, please replace in the plain
text version of the template
+
....
Invoice created on: ${invoice.createdOn.format("d/M/yy")}
....
+
with
+
....
Invoice created on: ${invoice.invoiceDate.format("d/M/yy")}
....
+
and in the HTML version replace
+
....
${invoice.createdOn.format("EEEEE d MMMMM yyyy")}

....
+
with
+
....
${invoice.invoiceDate.format("EEEEE d MMMMM yyyy")}

....
* A new export called 'Extended outcome CSV export' was added to the
class window. It creates an excel file that looks similar to an AVETMISS
NAT00120 file, but includes additional data referencing the student name
and onCourse course and class names and codes.
* Grouping and display of costs and budget items improved in the 'Budget
summary by class' report `#25391`
* Improvement to the contact CSV export layout to include all available
onCourse fields `#25900`
* A new trigger type was created that can be used to execute scripts:
class cancelled `#26272`
* Improvement to the Outcome Assessment Report to sort by student last
name `#26404`

== Minor features

* Additional advanced search options for the Enrolment general and VET
Fee Help tabs have been added `#28696`
* The course-class code export has been updated due to the changes to
VET fee Help to make VLL and VCU consistent with it `#29842`
* Additional advanced search options for the Enrolment general and VET
Fee Help tabs have been added `#28696`
* The course-class code export has been updated due to the changes to
VET fee Help to make VLL and VCU consistent with it `#29842`

* Improvement to the manual invoice - invoice line user interface, to
allow the selection of alternate COS discount accounts and to calculate
GST in reverse `#28830`
* Simplification to the class cancellation process to remove options
relating to charging a cancellation fee. These options are still
available for cancelling individual enrolments. `#28743`
* Invoice date in Quick Enrol is now editable, and can not be less than
the transaction locked date `#29239`
* Improvement to the payment reversal process to create a matching,
negative payment value for a reversed payment, and allow both payments
to be banked `#29232`
* Display of reversed payments in banking window in light grey text, to
assist with their identification `#29806`

* All list view prefetches have been reviewed and updated, to ensure all
onCourse windows are opening in the fastest possible time. Windows with
noticeable delays, like Applications and Payment In load significantly
faster `#29058`
* Allow the change of settlement date for deposited banking records
`#28972`
* Only allow payment reversals to be processed on unbanked payments.
Banked payments can be unbanked if they require reversing `#29707`
* Add reversed payments to the deposit banking process, so bounced check
papyments in and subsequent reversals can be banked on the correct dates
of receipt and bounce. On upgrade you may find a number of unbanked
reversals in your 'deposit banking' window. Be sure to bank them so the
reversal is correctly processed against your bank account balance.
Contact ish support if you require assistance with this process `#29232`
* Addition of a certificate icon next to outcomes that are linked to a
certificate. Text colour changes to light grey to indicate an outcome is
no longer editable because it is joined to an issued certificate
`#28832`
* Redesign of the CorporatePass to improve clarity in 'limit to classes'
feature `#29037`
* Addition of core filters to the payment in window for faster searching
and filtering `#29230`
* Addition of payment date field in Quick Enrol, so payments received in
the past e.g. direct deposit into your bank account, can be recorded
with the actual date of payment `#29240`
* Payment out date is now editable, and can be changed to a date in the
past or the future `#29241`

* The Tag edit view has been redesigned for a clearer and more concise
user experience, including a new field to add a custom URL to your tags
`#27055`
* When duplicating courses, related courses and products and attachments
are copied to the new course `#29136`
* Show a red arrow in the preferences window if an aspect of the
settings have a validation error and are preventing the window from
saving `#26613`
* The invoice remittance field height in the financial preferences has
been increased to display multiple lines of text `#27796`
* Report retained outcomes from cancelled enrolments in AVETMISS. By
default, only outcomes given a status prior to cancelation are retained
`#28141`
* Remember last used directory when selecting files for import `#26650`

* Default name of the asset account where payments are deposited changed
from 'Cheque account' to 'Deposited funds', in preparation for new
'undeposited funds' account creation `#28229`
* Allow payment in and payment out banking dates to be edited for all
types of payments `#28005`
* Add to enrolment window advanced search options 'NSW Commitment ID',
'Funding source - State' and 'Outcome Identifier - Training
Organisation' `#28142`
* AMEX payment types will now bank into a their own daily banking
deposit record, so they can be reconciled as their own group instead of
included with other credit card payment types `#28232`
* Open payment in/payment out record on double click from within the
Banking Deposit record to allow for the date banked record to be changed
as needed `#28575`
* Update the layout of the payment out edit window to show the same
information as payment in, including the addition to both windows of the
'create by' user name `#11537`
* Simple and advanced search options have been added to the Banking
Deposits window `#28263`
* All advanced search options are listed in alphabetical order `#28399`
* Ensure credit card payment types are always, and can only be, set to
bank automatically `#28565`
* Allow course with modules attached to be unflagged as VET to meet some
NSW AVETMISS reporting requirements `#28515`
* AVETMISS outcome '61 - Superseded subject' added to list of outcome
status options available `#27959`
* Store user preferences for all edit view windows, so that after
closing, the window will reopen in your preferred layout and size
`#26877`
* Improve layout of the enrolment cancellation/transfer administrative
fee display to auto select the income account from the class and show
the total admin fee charged inclusive of GST `#27549`
* Implementation of OS native file browser for simpler location of files
on disk and uploading of documents into onCourse `#27914`
* Improvements to the messaging window to search on message status, find
related message contact, and open queued email and SMS records from the
general messaging preferences `#28585`
* Improvement to discount in class override UI, to show the new class
fee inclusive/exclusive of tax, depending on the class tax settings
`#27252`
* An upgrade to convert some dateTime fields to date only has been
implemented. In a number of places in onCourse, where date and time
fields were used, but only date fields make sense, particularly in
relation to finance and reporting, you'll notice there is now no
requirement to add 12.00 am to the report runners. `#28231`

* Changed advanced search date operates 'before' and 'after' to say
'before and on' and 'after and on' so the meaning is clearer `#27589`
* Removed the print and export 'all' option from the user interface for
simplification. All records can still be printed or exported by ensuring
the list view contains all the records prior to selecting print or
export `#2772`
* Add the ability to cancel an enrolment from inside the contact and
class record using the delete icon `#27928`
* Moved the display of the payer name inside Quick Enrol from next to
the items list to the payment list for improved clarity as to which
contact in the process is the debtor `#28088`
* Improved linking inside onCourse to the specific sections of the user
documentation `#28268`

* Extended tags to waiting list, so you can now add your own workflow
and grouping criteria to requests `#27398`
* A new integration with the LMS Cloud Assess has been added to
onCourse, to allow you to automatically enrol onCourse students into the
LMS via enabling the 'cloudassess course enrolment create' script
`#27931`
* Added new 'Print' and 'Export' buttons to the list view, to allow
quick access to these functions without having to choose a menu option
`#27760`
* Addition of syntax $\{image "imagename"} to allow onCourse images to
be embedded in HTML email templates `#26862`
* Added 'total' to the list of advanced search options in the invoice
window `#27859`
* Moved Taxes window (formerly in the financial menu) to the General
Preferences `#27616`
* Quick Enrol now shows all classes for a course sorted by start date
order by default, with the next available classes at the top of the list
`#27429`
* Added a new access right type 'Summary extracts' to Financial section
to Allow/not allow user roles to export/print MYOB and trial balance
reports `#27288`
* Export the option 'neither Aboriginal or Torres Straight Islander' for
Indigenous status for all students born in a country other than
Australia, regardless of their response in the AVETMISS questions, as
'neither' is the only option allowed according to AVETMISS validation
rules. `#27320`
* Export 'Not provided' for student AVETMISS address data where the
student has provided a PO or GPO Box address instead of a street address
`#27488`
* Add the additional text 'All outcomes ending after 'outcomes before'
will automatically export as 'Continuing enrolment (70)' to the AVETMISS
7 export runner for better clarity as to when a 70 will be exported
instead of the database value `#27620`
* Changed the AVETMISS label 'Identifier' to 'RTO Identifier' and added
a link to training.gov to improve clarity for RTOs reporting into QLD
who also report their QLD ID via an additional field `#27691`
* AVETMISS improvements for non-VET Prior Learning, to export a default
FOE ID of 129999 where no value is provided `#27241`
* Export VET Fee Help files to the same nominated location as AVETMISS
files by default `#27550`
* Addition of the USI to the VET Fee Help VEN export file as per the
2016 reporting requirements `#28116`
* Embedded Open Sans Condensed fonts inside onCourse for new print
report font options `#28070`

* Supress AVETMISS export field for enrolment moved from VET Fee Help
tab to General tab `#25396`
* Require self-hosted onCourse installations to upgrade to the previous
major version, before applying further updates. If you are not currently
runnning the latest onCourse 8.0 release before applying this upgrade,
you will be notified to upgrade to that version first. `#27472`
* Implementation of the add enrolment and cancel enrolment function from
inside the contact record using the + and - buttons on the education tab
`#27472`
* Add 'Send email from template' to the Contact list view. Note that
there are no current default email templates in onCourse that send to
contacts, however some users may have created their own email templates
they wish to send using this function `#27336`
* Add new student.portalLink functions that can be embedded in email
templates and scripts to allow students to by pass the login process to
access a specific and named resource `#27697`
* Collision detection in the room timetable view reinstated `#27404`

* A new field has been added to the financial preferences tab called
'invoice remittance instructions'. Enter your custom instructions for
your invoice payments here e.g. bank account details, and it will print
on invoices with an outstanding balance to pay `#26912`
* onCourse now remembers the user preference for the list view sort
column, so when you close a list view and reopen it, it will reopen
showing the data listed in the same way `#20965`
* You can now sort list views by multiple columns at once by holding
down the shift key and clicking on multiple column headers. The sort
order is determined by the order the column headers are clicked upon i.e
the first column clicked is the primary sort order, followed by the
second column clicked ect. `#20965`
* For AVETMISS field values that populate from class, to enrolment and
then to outcome, the lock/unlock icon is used to show where values have
been inherited (field shows a value with a locked padlock) versus where
the value has been overridden (field is in editable mode, with an
unlocked padlock) `#25252`
* A new field, Confirmation of Enrolment (CoE) has been added to the
enrolment edit window for CRICOS enrolments. This field does not report
as part of the AVETMISS standard `#27121`
* The Discount edit layout has been refreshed to improve the usability
and grouping of related discount options `#27300`

* Add check box option to retain or remove class VET data during
duplication. Data is retained by default `#26606`
* Renamed the enrolment tab in the contact window to education to
reflect the addition of prior learning `#26768`
* Add + button to the contact window on the education tab above the
enrolment panel to open Quick Enrol with the student's details
pre-populated `#26768`
* Added search index for invoice dates and source to run faster queries
against these fields in onCourse `#26869`
* Redesign the front page of the class edit view to better present
discounts, including the customised discount values. `#27123`
* Added access level role to the user list view `#26797`

* Improvement to add courses process from voucher, to use the same sheet
and options as the add discount window `#25449`
* Simplification to the onCourse chart of accounts, by removing
reference to expense accounts that can not be posted to `#26410`
* Date Created column added to the enrolment list inside the contact
record, and the attached documents list `#24647`

* All discounts are now allowed to be negative (i.e. a surcharge) in
both discount schemes and manual discounts. This means the increased fee
is part of the enrolment invoice line, so the full fee charged will be
reversed should the enrolment be cancelled `#25447`
* Allow purchased memberships and products to be cancelled and an
optional credit note provided on cancellation `#25807`
* Payslips are now taggable `#25815`
* Added validation message if a tutor added to a class has an end date
in the past `#17775`
* New fields for recording Working with Children Check (WWCC) number,
expiry date, status and check date to the tutor tab of a tutor record
`#26006`
* Moved the creation of email messages to the onCourse server. This has
greatly improved the speed of sending large numbers of emails `#20489`
* AusPost suburb and postcode datafile added to onCourse, to improve
accuracy of address data entry `#22533`
* Show a message in the payment window when the payment attempt fails
and the window stays open to allow for another attempt or manual refund
`#25367`
* Validation added to ensure an outcome end date set manually can not be
before the outcome start date `#25521`
* Added date and time of document creation to the documents window.
Documents are shown sorted in chronological order by default, with the
newest documents at the top of the list `#25621`
* Added contact middle name to the AVETMISS data export files `#25783`
* Descriptions and other rich text content can now be added to the root
tag e.g. subjects so that tag content will display for the URL
www.mycollege.name/courses `#23330`
* Allow the purchase of pre-defined products when using a corporatePass
`#19808`
* The VET Fee-Help 'Type of attendance' field has been added to the
enrolment record. This allows you to set a 'Type of attendance' i.e.
full time at the class level, but change it to part time for some
students enrolled in the class `#25034`
* Remember and return by default to the last browsed location when
uploading a new document to onCourse `#25465`

=== Fixes

* Fix to the display of the contact financial tab so the balance
calculates correctly `#29558`
* Improvement to the creation of new custom filters so that they display
in the list view after re-opening the window `#29397`
* Import of new reports now correctly updates the report description
`#27304`
* Improvement to display of payment in list to clearly identify
undeposited vs deposited funds `#29360`
* Improvement to sales filters to differentiate between active and
expired and cancelled memberships `#29391`
* Allow multiple contacts to be removed from manual messaging lists
`#29398`
* Fix to permission for deletion of waitlist entries `#29436`
* Fix to remove text field delimiters from CQR export `#29592`
* Improvement to the AVETMISS delivery mode value so the inherited value
behaves like other inherited values when locked or unlocked `#29595`
* Improved the invoiceLine description default wording since some of the
data was being repeated `#28008`
* Changed the column headings in the Deposit Banking, Payment In and
Payment Out list views from 'Created' to 'Date paid'. Changed the field
in the Payment In edit view from 'Date created' to Date paid' `#29643`
* Search results for census date now does not include results from day
before or after selected period. E.g. 1-30 Sep period shows only
September results, no results from 31 Aug or 1 Oct `#29841`
* The 'is not empty' filter in the advanced search now correctly shows
records with nothing in commitment ID field `#29757`
* When a discount is manually changed at the class level, it now
duplicates across when duplicating the class. `#29852`
* Class list load times have been improved `#29918`
* Emails sent to incorrect address (e.g. student@mailcom) are now being
marked as not 'failed' `#28587`
* Fix to the dashboard tab so it's now displaying data again `#29201`
* The certificate report now always selects the correct template
`#29898`
* Credit notes are now automatically created when sales are cancelled
`#29958`
* Fix to the journals when vouchers are redeemed. Voucher liability
total cannot be charged for more than the amount payed for the voucher,
however it can be more than the used voucher value (e.g. when voucher
value is less than voucher price) `#29961`
* If the Messaging access right 'Email over 50 contacts' is not enabled
then this restricts sending of emails from template to 50+ people. A
message is also shown to the user when trying to send to more people
`#29730`
* LDAP SSL setting incorrect changes Bind user DN `#30193`

* Refactoring of class deletion process to improve process speed
`#26825`
* Improvement to the Tagging user interface to display the tag list and
tag description as larger fields field and show the tag URL value when
the field is locked `#29388`
* Improvement to tag weight ordering for exports and scripts `#28708`
* Fix to the access rights for discounts to allow staff with edit
permission to add new classes to existing discounts `#29364`
* Improvement to allow a concession type to be added to a contact during
record creation `#29408`
* Fix to allow concessions to be added to discounts correctly `#29408`
* Fix to allow discounts to be joined to related members `#29719`
* Improvement to calculate class budget income as inclusive of credit
notes manually joined to the class `#29429`

* The onCourse credit card payment gateway has been added to the
skillsOnCourse portal, to allow debtors to make payments against their
outstanding invoices or payment plans `#19455`
* A design refresh of the portal timetable has been implemented to show
sessions in a continal scrolling schedule. Each session can be clicked
on to expand and show additional notes and links `#28496`
* A neew team timetable view has been implemented for users with group
permissions for other users in the portal. In this view you will see the
attendees scheduled for each session `#28496`
* An all new and improved design for tutors marking attendance via the
portal now includes the CRICOS marking options for partial attendance
and absent with reason `#27482`
* A feature for marking the class roll has been added to show the
attendance percentage of each student `#27482`
* Students (and their approved portal contacts) can see information
about the student's attendance for each class, showing the marked roll
results for each session as well as an overall attendance calculation
`#28804`
* A new feature has been added to the skillsOnCourse login screen to
auto detect first time visitors to the site, when following a login link
from onCourse. They system will auto populate their name and email
address and prompt them to set up a password on their first visit
`#28881`
* A new feature for adding hero images to course descriptions using tags
in onCourse. The
http://www.ish.com.au/s/onCourse/doc/web/images_and_attachments.html#d5e1057[Images
and Attachments] of the web documentation has detailed instructions on
how to implement this feature `#29198`

* Reinstate the Trial balance and MYOB export options option from the
Financial - Summary Extracts menu so historical reports can be
reprinted/re-exported `#29213`
* Update the list of required import files when switching between import
types `
            #27351
          `
* Improvement to the AVETMISS import to always select English for any
English equivalent language type such as 'American' `#28239`
* Reinstate admin permision to edit historical note records `#29284`
* Improvement to invoice date time to avoid date display changes across
timezones `#28861`
* Fix to credit card banking settlement date, to be reported date from
the gateway rather than the onCourse banked on date `#29335`

* Fix to simple search in certificate window to allow for standard
'surname, firstname' or firstname surname' style searching of records
`#28312`
* Invoice number correctly displays on class roll `#28526`
* Improvement to the contact merge feature to reduce duplicates between
onCourse and web databases `#28235`
* Improvement to the attendance percentage calculations inside the class
attendance view to ensure partial attendance and absent with reason
attendances count towards valid attendance counts `#28474`
* Fix to the Fee Help Requested field in the enrolment record to ensure
the value is not set until the enrolment status is finalised in the
database `#28106`
* VET Fee Help - VEN File name exports with a full stop in the file
name, like the other export files `#28510`
* VET Fee Help - VEN will now only export each contact once to avoid
duplicates when enrolling in multiple courses `#28511`
* VET Fee Help - Update 'unit of study code' to export as standard
courseCode-classCode format `#28512`
* Improve onCourse contact merge function when custom fields are present
`#28545`
* Prevent the preference window from opening more than one instance at a
time for each user `#28586`
* Display contact financial records sorted by date and time inside the
contact record `#28781`
* Fix to wait list tagging function to correctly delete related tags
when the waiting list entry is deleted `#28959`
* Improvement to EULA checking preference to retain check when the user
name is modified `#27475`

* Scroll bar added to preferences window left hand pane `#27873`
* Fix to record status updates from inside edit view process to
immediately update status change in related list views `#28117`
* Allow payment plan payment due dates to be set prior to the invoice
creation date `#27557`
* Fix to 'add this discount when creating or duplicating classes' to add
the discount to all classes, including those where it did not previously
apply `#27679`
* Improvement to the merge student process to prevent merging when both
students have active enrolments in the same class `#27787`
* Where prior learning data is non-VET, export it for AVETMISS with the
module code ISH+ID of the record to ensure there are no inadvertent
duplications of NAT00060 records `#27878`
* Restore the display of the invoice number in the contact education tab
record `#27944`
* Prevent deletion of a prior learning record where one of it's outcomes
are joined to a certificate record `#28004`
* Fix to update contact details screen for students with a validated USI
to show mouse cursor in the correct position `#28015`
* Improved mouse scroll behavious in large text fields, such as scripts
and templates `#28013`
* Improved colour coding of classes in list view to indicate enrolment
status. Classes that are disabled for enrolment or cancelled show in
light grey font, classes with enrolment enabled via onCourse only in
dark grey font, and classes where enrolment is allowed online in black
font `#28058`
* Display time of creation for invoics in the contact financial tab
`#28088`
* Allow access to open document attachments from inside Quick Enrol
`#28101`
* Fix to allow bulk tagging via mouse right click from the enrolments,
waiting lists and payslips list view windows `#28144`
* Scrolling through record edit views in the contact list using the next
and previous options will attempt to load the next record on the same
tab as the previous record. Where that tab is not available, the next
tab is selected `#28247`
* Fix to the VET Fee Help 'Fee charged' value, which was displaying
$0.00 for some enrolment records, rather than the fee charged `#28343`
* Prevent outcome start date from being reset to the class start date
when the end date is edited manually `#28394`
* Ensure data entered from inside a sheet opened from within a record
edit view prompts the user to save when leaving the record `#28137`
* Correctly export AVETMISS NAT00120 Specific Funding Identifer data
from outcome record `#28196`
* Improvement to CloudAssess integration to check for student duplicates
on enrolment in a cloudAssess class `#28397`

* Improved prefetches for creating large message batches, to ensure
server is not overloaded `#27748`
* Removed lock/unlock icons from outcomes obtained via prior learning,
as there are no class dates to inherit this data from `#27241`
* Do not request to save company records when closing the edit view and
no changes have been made `#27631`
* Improved validation message when attempting to delete discounts to
explain discounts already used can only be disabled `#27346`
* A fix to access control edit permissions where when the account access
role was changed, and some preferences and permissions didn't update as
expected `#27717`
* Allow spaces to be added when entering credit card numbers in the
onCourse payment gateway `#26889`
* Improvement to the onCourse replication process to reduce the
occurrence of stuck 'in transaction' status enrolments `#28089`
* Improve clarity of user messages in Quick Enrol when the payment
gateway is closed without completing or cancelling the payment attempt
`#26888`
* Improve visual display of calendar icon in advanced search so it
doesn't overlay the data in the field `#27422`
* Fix to prevent sending of Credit Note emails when 'send credit note
email' option is unchecked in enrolment cancellation or transfer process
`#27963`
* Improved loading speed of course lookup process in Quick Enrol
`#28057`
* Fix to ensure correct naming of payment types in onCourse UI for new
installations `#27991`
* Replacement of the class cancellation script and email set to a
version that triggers only on class cancellation instead of enrolment
cancellation `#28001`

* Fix for exception in Quick Enrol that could occur when a fee or
payment amount contains a comma `#27523`
* Moved the CQR export from the certificate cogwheel and into the export
list to make it more consistent with other onCourse export processes
`#27277`
* Restored the functionality of opening related contacts from inside a
contact record with the 'open related' icon `#27539`
* Fix to voucher redemption process to update the redeemed value
immediately `#26126`
* Only display payment plan payment due dates on invoices that are fully
or partially unpaid `#27203`
* Ensure Certificates created with a retrospective Awarded On date are
collected in the AVETMISS NAT00130 export for their date range `#27452`
* Allow newly purchased vouchers to be redeemed immediately in Quick
Enrol `#27505`
* Ensure if 'export only VET courses' is selected in the AVETMISS export
runner, non VET Prior Learning records do not export `#27525`
* Fix to contact CSV export to export the student language name
correctly `#27574`
* Empty column removed from all onCourse default class rolls `#27586`
* Significant improvement to onCourse server memory usage when large
scripted emails queue to send `#27625`
* Remove from Banking Deposit display unsuccessful and reversed payment
types `#27664`
* Show negative values (Payments Out - refunds) in brackets in the
Banking Deposit list to clearly identify them `#27664`
* In the Banking Deposit window total, deduct payments out (refunds)
processed during the day from the total amount banked `#27664`
* Fix to record creation, saving and editing process while large message
batches are being created and updated `#27673`
* Prevent discounts attached to CorporatePass use from displaying or
being accessible in Quick Enrol `#27754`
* Prevent null pointer exception when a Quick Enrol process including a
payment plan invoice is unticked during the creation process `#27828`
* Prevent the shifting of outcome start and end dates when the onCourse
client and server are operating in different timezones `#27669`

* Increased size of company name field in contact record view `#26836`
* Fix bug where contact address was missing from invoices where a class
on the invoice had a payment plan `#27125`
* Display name of voucher edit window now displays correct name 'voucher
type' `#27132`
* Removed extraneous validation in Quick Enrol that could cause an
exception where an enrolment was removed from QE `#26786`
* Fix to Quick Enrol that could cause the application to lock up when a
class with more than 1,000 discounts was selected `#27254`
* Fix the Google 'get location' tool in the sites records to retrieve
the latitude and longitude of the site address `#26821`
* Tab between fields order was adjusted on the contact record to ensure
consistent and expected left to right behaviour `#26693`
* Remove reference to 'this invoice' when a user is processing a payment
in via Quick Enrol `#26858`
* Fix to 'find related invoices' from the accounts window to ensure it
returns the expected results `#26891`
* Remove caching of payslip list view to improve ability to locate newly
created records `#27067`
* Fix to edit/save behaviour of multi record update options such as
setting outcome values or adding/removing tags, so that if the record is
not saved then the changes to the associated records are not saved
`#26837`
* Add correct pluralisation to sub list headings i.e. add 's' to the
name when there is more than one record `#26995`
* Pre-populate student information into Quick Enrol when the 'add
enrolment' option is clicked inside their contact record `#27263`
* Improve load time between onCourse splash screen and login window
`#26983`
* mySQL upgrade from AUTO_PK to db generated primary keys for improved
use of database transaction functionality `#26963`
* Improved the opening speed of the CorporatePass edit view by removing
the embedded list of invoices that have used the CorporatePass. The find
related function shows this information as needed `#27172`
* Improved layout for payment plans in the invoice edit view. Payment
lines are now arranged in chronological order so it logically follows
Invoice and Payment In lines. Removed from view any unnecessary overdue
values for initial payment lines `#27204`
* Fix to the 'Hide discounted price on web' option in the discount
window so it can be applied when a discount is eligible via a
CorporatePass redemption, and not shown to general visitors on the
website `#27300`
* Performance improvements to the send email process when large batches
of emails are sent together `#27328`

* Under certain circumstances, heavy use of scripts would exhaust all
the server memory preventing any further logins `#27219`
* Classes without any sessions, but not marked as self-paced would cause
problems with setting outcome dates `#27215`
* Add warning message when trying to delete a tutor with a wage that has
already created paylines `#26885`
* Honorific was incorrectly exported in position of contact title in
standard CSV export. This has been corrected, and the honorific field
added to export after the contact name `#26609`
* Country of Birth name was not exporting the expected name value in the
standard CSV exported `#26609`
* Prevent tutor middle names from displaying in web advertising copy
`#26741`

* Make it easier to add brand new classes to discount strategies
`#26409`
* Improvement to AVETMISS reporting collection of outcomes to ensure
self paced outcomes in the date range when their start and/or end dates
are in the reporting period nominated `#26518`
* Fix issue where users who did not have access rights to edit enrolment
outcomes could not view any class record data `#26783`
* Fix to allow correct deletion of pay lines for tutors who are attached
to the class record multiple times with different pay roles `#26795`
* Ensure all outgoing emails use the from address set in the messaging
window, where this is different to the default from address `#26866`
* Fix to display the time format with hours and minutes correctly across
timezones `#26668`
* In custom drop down fields, show the word 'Other' when the option * is
chosen `#26676`
* Correctly switch between % and $ value when discount type is changed
during set up `#26697`
* Ensure tag edit view fields grow with window resize `#26698`
* Fix to advanced search payment in to allow search on date banked
window `#26704`
* Display all sessions in timetable when a contact is both a student and
a tutor `#26727`
* https:// added to the URL for all documents so they open correctly
without certificate warnings `#26796`
* Fix Quick Enrol switching between company and student contacts
`#26819`

* Fix to the class duplication process which could sometimes fail when
tutor attendance was marked but not approved `#26023`
* Validation message added when adding contact headshot to ensure the
contact record has been saved to the database first `#25972`
* Automatically tick the 'VET' flag of a course when a unit of
competency is added to the VET tab `#25973`
* Fix to classes that were duplicated over a daylight savings change
period to show the correct time for each session `#26157`
* Label in Quick Enrol 'concession type' changed to 'Discount type' to
improve clarity of meaning `#26183`
* A technical fix was implemented to prevent a race condition in the
replication process which could leave some enrolments in an 'in
transaction' state where there were multiple users attempting to process
an enrolment into the last place in a class `#25706`
* A maximum width for tags names was introduced to visually truncate
long tag names attached to records and allow the tags to wrap correctly
in the window `#26226`
* Fix to the label in the class fee sheet to switch between "Total class
fee (inc GST)" and "Total class fee (no GST)" depending on the GST
option selected `#24264`
* Improvement to window view copy and paste to excel functions to ensure
date formats appear the same way in the pasted data as they did the
onCourse window `#25918`

=== Web features

* A new option to the CMS has been added to enable tutor outcome marking
in the portal. This option is disabled by default. `#28870`

* The onCourse credit card payment gateway has been added to the
skillsOnCourse portal, to allow debtors to make payments against their
outstanding invoices or payment plans `#19455`
* A design refresh of the portal timetable has been implemented to show
sessions in a continal scrolling schedule. Each session can be clicked
on to expand and show additional notes and links `#28496`
* A neew team timetable view has been implemented for users with group
permissions for other users in the portal. In this view you will see the
attendees scheduled for each session `#28496`
* An all new and improved design for tutors marking attendance via the
portal now includes the CRICOS marking options for partial attendance
and absent with reason `#27482`
* A feature for marking the class roll has been added to show the
attendance percentage of each student `#27482`
* Students (and their approved portal contacts) can see information
about the student's attendance for each class, showing the marked roll
results for each session as well as an overall attendance calculation
`#28804`
* A new feature has been added to the skillsOnCourse login screen to
auto detect first time visitors to the site, when following a login link
from onCourse. They system will auto populate their name and email
address and prompt them to set up a password on their first visit
`#28881`
* A new feature for adding hero images to course descriptions using tags
in onCourse. The
http://www.ish.com.au/s/onCourse/doc/web/images_and_attachments.html#d5e1057[Images
and Attachments] of the web documentation has detailed instructions on
how to implement this feature `#29198`

* A new set of preferences were added to lock the online mailing list,
waiting list and enrolment process to only allow existing students to
add or enrol themselves. This feature is particularly for the use for
enterprise RTOs or membership based organisations. To enable these
functions on your website, uncheck the CMS setting options 'Allow create
new student' `#27668`

* An important change has been made to the student USI collection portal
to improve the quality of the data collected by RTOs. Contact data
mandatory for AVETMISS reporting that has not been supplied on
enrolment, such as Address, Suburb, Postcode and Date of Birth will be
requested in the first step. The second step now requests the students
complete the AVETMISS questions, with the USI as the third step.
`#27332`
* Addition of OpenGraph and Facebook Namespaces to HTML tag for all
default and custom website templates `#22081`
* Allow tag description content to be added to root tags and to render
on www.mysite.com/courses and www.mysite.com/subjects pages on the
website `#23330`

* Removed rollover and hover text from portal to improve user experience
on touch screen devices `#25991`
* A payment agreement template was added to the website files, allowing
users to customise the wording of the agreement to the terms and
conditions of sale, and insert multiple links to other documents where
required `#26191`
* Added search options ?near and ?time to course pages, so classes
displayed on these pages can be filtered for display `#26499`
* Negative discounts that apply to web enrolments will automatically
take priority over other discounts available `#26540`
* Address, suburb and postcode field data collection via the USI portal
is always mandatory, regardless of the CMS settings for the enrol app
`#26605`
* Fix to the display of the contact financial tab so the balance
calculates correctly `#29558`
* Improvement to the creation of new custom filters so that they display
in the list view after re-opening the window `#29397`
* Import of new reports now correctly updates the report description
`#27304`
* Improvement to display of payment in list to clearly identify
undeposited vs deposited funds `#29360`
* Improvement to sales filters to differentiate between active and
expired and cancelled memberships `#29391`
* Allow multiple contacts to be removed from manual messaging lists
`#29398`
* Fix to permission for deletion of waitlist entries `#29436`
* Fix to remove text field delimiters from CQR export `#29592`
* Improvement to the AVETMISS delivery mode value so the inherited value
behaves like other inherited values when locked or unlocked `#29595`
* Improved the invoiceLine description default wording since some of the
data was being repeated `#28008`
* Changed the column headings in the Deposit Banking, Payment In and
Payment Out list views from 'Created' to 'Date paid'. Changed the field
in the Payment In edit view from 'Date created' to Date paid' `#29643`
* Search results for census date now does not include results from day
before or after selected period. E.g. 1-30 Sep period shows only
September results, no results from 31 Aug or 1 Oct `#29841`
* The 'is not empty' filter in the advanced search now correctly shows
records with nothing in commitment ID field `#29757`
* When a discount is manually changed at the class level, it now
duplicates across when duplicating the class. `#29852`
* Class list load times have been improved `#29918`
* Emails sent to incorrect address (e.g. student@mailcom) are now being
marked as not 'failed' `#28587`
* Fix to the dashboard tab so it's now displaying data again `#29201`
* The certificate report now always selects the correct template
`#29898`
* Credit notes are now automatically created when sales are cancelled
`#29958`
* Fix to the journals when vouchers are redeemed. Voucher liability
total cannot be charged for more than the amount payed for the voucher,
however it can be more than the used voucher value (e.g. when voucher
value is less than voucher price) `#29961`
* If the Messaging access right 'Email over 50 contacts' is not enabled
then this restricts sending of emails from template to 50+ people. A
message is also shown to the user when trying to send to more people
`#29730`
* LDAP SSL setting incorrect changes Bind user DN `#30193`

=== Web fixes

* A new option to the CMS has been added to enable tutor outcome marking
in the portal. This option is disabled by default. `#28870`
* Improvement to the web enrolment process when redeeming a voucher to
auto assign the defined voucher contact as the payer by default,
allowing vouchers to be redeemed by any student, but still ensuring the
invoice on redemption is sent to designated voucher contact `#29138`
* Improved display of invoices in the portal to better match onCourse
email templates and print reports `#28286`
* Hide payments in the portal of $0, including internal system payments
and failed payment attempts `#29162`
* Ensure new attendance sessions are created in the portal when sessions
in the class are added or adjusted when the class is in progress
`#29521`
* Fix to ensure course images display in the portal correctly `#29607`

* Allow students to manage their unsubscriptions without a login using
$\{contact.getPortalLink("subscriptions")} in email templates `#27344`
* Fix to the CMS editing process to allow multiple tabs to be open and
edited at the same time `#28195`
* Improvement to attendance marking replication process between the
skillsOnCourse portal and onCourse where a class has multiple sessions
on the same day `#27761`
* Allow office onCourse users to successfully complete an enrolment for
a student who abandoned their enrolment part way through on the web, but
did not cancel it `#28168`
* Improvement to the use of CorporatePass on the web to ensure any
discount that applies to corporate pass users is removed if the
purchaser changes their mind and instead enrols and pays with a credit
card `#26731`
* Upgrade to the Solr search engine used on the web to improve speed and
mutli faceted search options `#26731`

* Apply marketing preferences selected during the enrolment process to
the contact record in onCourse `#27870`
* Change validation for email addresses during the online enrolment
process to allow for new domain name extensions `#27935`
* Allow a voucher purchased on the website to be redeemed by any user
presenting the voucher code `#27312`
* Classes that have their enrolments automatically disabled based upon
date restrictions collapse under the 'show full classes' list set with
classes that are actually full `#27975`
* Increase URL redirect fields in CMS to 512 characters `#27948`
* Allow site based searches on course pages, to restrict the classes
displayed to a particular site location `#27665`

* Fix to display the $ symbol when displaying the corporatePass discount
fees on the web `#27269`
* Fix to the user switching function inside the skillsOnCourse portal
which would not correctly lock/unlock the USI field when swapping
between contacts `#27583`
* Fix to the display of the 'loading more courses' icon at the bottom of
a course list page when visiting an onCourse website from an iOS device
`#26480`
* Allow CMS redirects for pages containing unique characters in the URL
such as % `#27054`

* Fix to contact merge process to retain relationships for portal logins
`#26014`
* Ensure * option in custom field choices displays as 'other' in web
enrolment and portal pages `#26677`
* Fix to faceted search functionality that was impacted by non alpha
characters in the tag names `#27082`
* Fix to portal iCal feed, where some new classes were not automatically
added to user calendars `#26618`
* Fix to rich text rendering in portal to display italic text `#27224`
* Improved wording to final confirmation screen of online
enrolment/purchasing process when no payment is made `#27270`
